Will come back everyone in this lecture will walk you through how to use the pandas data reader.
Let's open up and you put a notebook and get started.
OK here I am at a new Jupiter notebook now.
Panda's data reader actually supports a wide array of API is used to support the Yahoo Finance API.
But since Yahoo got bought by Verizon they've seemed to close their API or disabled it or at least disable
Panas ability to read it.
However the Google Finance API is still open and readable as well as other API.
You can check out the documentation of Panas data reader linked in the resource notes in case you want
more information on that.
But let's go ahead and show you how you can actually use Panas data reader will say import pantless
underscore data reader you can do tab's autocomplete this and you'll say that data as web and then will
also typically do work in a Panas data reader is import the date time library.
That way we can actually pasand date time objects to Panas data reader.
So we'll do is we'll specify a start date.
So say date time date time and then all we're gonna do is say let's just say 2015 and then we'll set
an end date to be date time date time and we'll set this to be 2017 January 1st.
So I'm just going to get two years for data from the 1st of 2015 the 1st of 2017 and let's go ahead
and use Facebook as our stock.
So you create a variable that you want to be your data frame and then you call Web dots and you're going
to call the data reader Methot off of this and then the data either method is going to take a few things
it's going to take a name the data source and then a start date and an end date.
So it's going to do this.
The what's the name of this is just going to be the ticker for the stock which you can just look up
online.
For Facebook it's capital F and capital B.
And then we're going to connect using Google and then we passen that start variable that we created
and then that end variable and you run this.
And this may get blocked if you have a firewall but typically it works pretty well.
Now what you can do is just say Facebook head then when you run that you have this nice little data
frame here.
So this data frame starts of a date time index where you just have daily data points for the stock and
you have the opening price.
The high price for that day.
The low price for that day in the closing price for that day as well as the volume of stock actually
traded.
Now keep in mind this closing price is going to represent the Google API the adjusted closing price.
So that can take things into account like a stock split.
So that's really all you need to know about web data reader as far as what we're going to use it for
this course continuing on.
But I want to show you some experimental options.
So if you've done the reading and the extra resources learning about what are our options why to use
options how options work and how to read and options table.
You can actually get an options table using Panas data reader.
Now keep in mind this is still technically experimental so it doesn't always work but typically for
people based in the United States it tends to work as long as you don't have a firewall blocking it.
But in order to get the options table you can say from Panas data reader that data import options and
then we'll say FBA options equals options B Google.
And then we're going to go ahead and do is we're going to get our data frames or say options.
ZF is equal to and you grab the options that you just created and then say get and we can do is you
can actually get called data for data et cetera put data but just get the options data itself.
And will say an argument or parameter expiry.
And then we're going to say for the expiration if the options call expiry dates and then grab index
0 here.
So if you run this you should be able to get out in option's data frame.
So if you check the options the app will just stick the head of it you get something that looks like
this where we have the bid prices the gas prices et cetera underlying price and then that quote time.
So if you want to learn more about how to actually read these options tables we still haven't really
dived into finance in general so we'll leave this for a later topic.
But you can go ahead and check out the resource links now in case you want to read up on how to actually
interpret the options table for now.
Just wanted to present it to you that Panas data reader is capable of reading these options.
Okay.
Thanks everyone.
And I will see at the next lecture.